CSC111L - Lab 9
Hernest Koroli

Comparison Results Questions:

1. Both lists should perform in relatively the same amount of time(the number of digits should be similar or the same) Explain how each add method works. 
The ArrayList just adds elements to the ArrayList object and then resizes when the capacity is full and a new array needs to be created. 
For a linked list you're creating elements. If there are two elements or more then Nodes have to exist to refer to another element hence the term linked comes in.
Actually, there is a head node for the first element so regardless of how many elements you have from 1 element to a 1,000,000 they all need Nodes that refer to
other elements.

2. Which type of list(array or linked) performed better for inserting to the front of the list? Why? Explain how each insertAtFront method works. 
A LinkedList performs much better compared to an ArrayList because when you add a new element it doesn't have to modify or shift the elements above
The element gets added and there are nodes connecting it.
A--B--D--E
add(C, 2)
A--B~~C--D--E
The B node has referred to C and the reference to D is gone. Linked lists are much faster in that it only needs to modify a couple of nodes
referring to other elements.

The ArrayList takes a long time similiar to a linear search which is O(n).
We have to shift all elements to the next position and insert the element we want so it's likely O(n + 1).
The " + 1" exists because of that extra element we have to accomodate because we're adding it.

3. Which type of list(array or linked) performed better for getting a value from the list? Why? Explain how each get method works. 
The ArrayList will be much better because the get() method is accessing the value based on the index which is why the recorded time
was incredibly low. You can just directly access any element with array[i] and don't need any fancy get method().
The linked list will be much slower because all elements are "chained" together. Let's assume you want the element E.
You can't go from A to E instead you have to grom A to B, B to C, C to D, then D to E.


